{
    "title": "Refinement for Monadic Programs",
    "authors": [
        "Peter Lammich"
    ],
    "topic": "Computer science/Programming languages/Logics",
    "date": "2012-01-30",
    "abstract": "We provide a framework for program and data refinement in Isabelle/HOL.\nThe framework is based on a nondeterminism-monad with assertions, i.e.,\nthe monad carries a set of results or an assertion failure.\nRecursion is expressed by fixed points. For convenience, we also provide\nwhile and foreach combinators.\n<p>\nThe framework provides tools to automatize canonical tasks, such as\nverification condition generation, finding appropriate data refinement relations,\nand refine an executable program to a form that is accepted by the\nIsabelle/HOL code generator.\n<p>\nThis submission comes with a collection of examples and a user-guide,\nillustrating the usage of the framework.",
    "extra-history": "\nChange history:\n[2012-04-23] Introduced ordered FOREACH loops<br>\n[2012-06] New features:\nREC_rule_arb and RECT_rule_arb allow for generalizing over variables.\nprepare_code_thms - command extracts code equations for recursion combinators.<br>\n[2012-07] New example: Nested DFS for emptiness check of Buchi-automata with witness.<br>\nNew feature:\nfo_rule method to apply resolution using first-order matching. Useful for arg_conf, fun_cong.<br>\n[2012-08] Adaptation to ICF v2.<br>\n[2012-10-05] Adaptations to include support for Automatic Refinement Framework.<br>\n[2013-09] This entry now depends on Automatic Refinement<br>\n[2014-06] New feature: vc_solve method to solve verification conditions.\nMaintenace changes: VCG-rules for nfoldli, improved setup for FOREACH-loops.<br>\n[2014-07] Now defining recursion via flat domain. Dropped many single-valued prerequisites.\nChanged notion of data refinement. In single-valued case, this matches the old notion.\nIn non-single valued case, the new notion allows for more convenient rules.\nIn particular, the new definitions allow for projecting away ghost variables as a refinement step.<br>\n[2014-11] New features: le-or-fail relation (leof), modular reasoning about loop invariants.",
    "notify": "lammich@in.tum.de"
}