{
    "title": "The Resolution Calculus for First-Order Logic",
    "authors": [
        "Anders Schlichtkrull"
    ],
    "notify": "andschl@dtu.dk",
    "date": "2016-06-30",
    "topics": [
        "Logic-General logic-Mechanization of proofs"
    ],
    "abstract": "\nThis theory is a formalization of the resolution calculus for\nfirst-order logic. It is proven sound and complete. The soundness\nproof uses the substitution lemma, which shows a correspondence\nbetween substitutions and updates to an environment. The completeness\nproof uses semantic trees, i.e. trees whose paths are partial Herbrand\ninterpretations. It employs Herbrand's theorem in a formulation which\nstates that an unsatisfiable set of clauses has a finite closed\nsemantic tree. It also uses the lifting lemma which lifts resolution\nderivation steps from the ground world up to the first-order world.\nThe theory is presented in a paper in the Journal of Automated Reasoning\n[Sch18] which extends a paper presented at the International Conference\non Interactive Theorem Proving [Sch16]. An earlier version was\npresented in an MSc thesis [Sch15]. The formalization mostly follows\ntextbooks by Ben-Ari [BA12], Chang and Lee [CL73], and Leitsch [Lei97].\nThe theory is part of the IsaFoL project [IsaFoL]. <p>\n<a name=\"Sch18\"></a>[Sch18] Anders Schlichtkrull. \"Formalization of the\nResolution Calculus for First-Order Logic\". Journal of Automated\nReasoning, 2018.<br> <a name=\"Sch16\"></a>[Sch16] Anders\nSchlichtkrull. \"Formalization of the Resolution Calculus for First-Order\nLogic\". In: ITP 2016. Vol. 9807. LNCS. Springer, 2016.<br>\n<a name=\"Sch15\"></a>[Sch15] Anders Schlichtkrull. <a href=\"https://people.compute.dtu.dk/andschl/Thesis.pdf\">\n\"Formalization of Resolution Calculus in Isabelle\"</a>.\n<a href=\"https://people.compute.dtu.dk/andschl/Thesis.pdf\">https://people.compute.dtu.dk/andschl/Thesis.pdf</a>.\nMSc thesis. Technical University of Denmark, 2015.<br>\n<a name=\"BA12\"></a>[BA12] Mordechai Ben-Ari. <i>Mathematical Logic for\nComputer Science</i>. 3rd. Springer, 2012.<br> <a\nname=\"CL73\"></a>[CL73] Chin-Liang Chang and Richard Char-Tung Lee.\n<i>Symbolic Logic and Mechanical Theorem Proving</i>. 1st. Academic\nPress, Inc., 1973.<br> <a name=\"Lei97\"></a>[Lei97] Alexander\nLeitsch. <i>The Resolution Calculus</i>. Texts in theoretical computer\nscience. Springer, 1997.<br> <a name=\"IsaFoL\"></a>[IsaFoL]\nIsaFoL authors. <a href=\"https://bitbucket.org/jasmin_blanchette/isafol\">\nIsaFoL: Isabelle Formalization of Logic</a>.\n<a href=\"https://bitbucket.org/jasmin_blanchette/isafol\">https://bitbucket.org/jasmin_blanchette/isafol</a>.",
    "extra-history": "\nChange history:\n[2018-01-24]: added several new versions of the soundness and completeness theorems as described in the paper [Sch18]. <br>\n[2018-03-20]: added a concrete instance of the unification and completeness theorems using the First-Order Terms AFP-entry from IsaFoR as described in the papers [Sch16] and [Sch18]."
}